W-14914426 Adding TLS feature (#269)
mulesoft/docs-exchange: modules/ROOT/pages/to-deploy-using-rest-connect.adoc

version: 0.1
mediaType: application/json

uses:
  rest-connect: exchange_modules/org.mule.connectivity/rest-connect-library/1.0.0/rest-connect-library.raml

  ...
  /{postId}:
    uriParameters:
      postId: integer

    get:
      (rest-connect.operationName): Retrieve a post by id
      displayName: Get a post by ID.
      responses:
        200:
          body:
            type: Post
----

> You can also change the text in `displayName`, for example:

Reviewer: IMHO this method is the easiest and standard, maybe it should be offered first as it was.

----

[[metadata-limitations]]
== Metadata Limitations

REST Connect generates metadata for each operation based on your schema definition in the request and response for each method in your RAML. REST Connect cannot generate metadata based on examples in the RAML.

> REST Connect supports only one input/output type and uses the first one declared in the API specification. You can change this behavior by using the 'default' property from the REST Connect library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
REST Connect supports only one input/output type and uses the first one declared in the API specification. You can change this behavior by using the `default` property from the REST Connect library.
```

> The following is an example that uses the REST Connect library:

Reviewer 2: Suggest: The following example uses the REST Connect library:

[[reserved-keywords]]
== Reserved Keywords

> Valid identifiers for REST Connect must not use any reserved Java keywords or reserved Mule keywords.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Valid identifiers for REST Connect must not use any reserved Java or Mule keywords.
```

* `target`
* `targetValue`

> 

Reviewer: why was this part deleted? https://docs.mulesoft.com/exchange/to-deploy-using-rest-connect#oauth2-in-design-center-for-rest-connect from the original docs?. I this it was replaced by mistake and shoul stay afber "Reserved words" and "Generating Connectors with TLS support" titles

Author: @liocastiglioni As noted in the PR, this section is outdated. The screen shots are outdated, there are missing steps, and it doesn't work as documented. If you can work with me to update it so it's current, we can do that.

Reviewer: Agree, lets remove it then

[[tls-support]]
== Generating Connectors With TLS Support

> Add a `properties.json` file to the root directory of your Design Center API project to enable TLS support to enhance security for your app. 

Reviewer: I wouldn't use enhance security, Instead I would write:

Add a `properties.json` file to the root directory of your Design Center API project to enable TLS support for your app.

. In Design Center, Select *Files +* > *New file*.  
. In the *Add new file* window, select *API format > other*, name the file `properties.json`, then click *Create*.
. In the new file, add `"tlsEnabled": true`.
+
Adding this property and setting it to true customizes the connector generation so that when the Rest Connect Service receives the property, the connector is upgraded to run on Mule runtime 4.6. and the `tlsEnabled` flag propagates to the connector generation. 

This enables Anypoint Studio to display the appropriate form to collect the information required for TLS connection configuration. 
 

> It is best to add the `properties.json` file only if you want to enable TLS support, or explicitly opt out of it. If you don't add a `properties.json` file to your API project, the REST Connect Service generates the standard connector artifacts, without TLS support.

Reviewer 3: If you don't add a properties.json  - or if you add an empty properties.json file

Author: I removed that intentionally. This is telling them to only add this file if they are enabling TLS support, so I don't see any situation where they would add an empty properties.json file.

Reviewer: the only situation I imagine is adding the json file and forget to add its properties. But your can leave it as is and the mail will show the error anyways

* `target`
* `targetValue`

[[tls-support]]
== Generating Connectors With TLS Support

> Mule 4 (SmartConnector) connectors support Transport Layer Security (TLS). When you enable TLS support and generate the connector, the connector is upgraded to run on Mule runtime 4.6. and TLS is enabled so that Anypoint Studio displays the appropriate form to collect required TLS connection configuration information for the connector. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mule 4 (SmartConnector) connectors support Transport Layer Security (TLS). When you enable TLS support and generate a connector, the connector is upgraded to run on Mule runtime 4.6, and TLS is enabled so that Anypoint Studio displays the appropriate form for collecting required TLS connection configuration information for the connector. 
```

Reviewer 2: I suggest using bullets and tweaking the wording to break up the long text.

When you enable TLS support and generate a connector:

*  The connector is upgraded to run on Mule runtime 4.6. 
*  TLS is enabled, so that Anypoint Studio displays a form for collecting the connector's required TLS connection configuration information.

> To enable TLS, add a `properties.json` file to the root directory of your Design Center API project for your app: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable TLS, add a `properties.json` file to the root directory of the Design Center API project for your app: 
```

. In Design Center, Select *Files +* > *New file*.  

> . In the *Add new file* window, select *API format > other*, name the file `properties.json`, then click *Create*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *Add new file* window, select *API format > other*, name the file `properties.json`, and click *Create*.
```

Reviewer 2: or "and then click *Create*."

Reviewer 2: or "and then click *Create*.

. In the new file, add `"tlsEnabled": true`.
+
[NOTE]

> Add the `properties.json` file only if you want to enable TLS support or explicitly opt out of it. If you don't add a `properties.json` file to your API project, the REST Connect Service generates the standard connector artifacts, without TLS support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add the `properties.json` file only if you want to enable TLS support or explicitly opt out of it. If you don't add a `properties.json` file to your API project, the REST Connect Service generates the standard connector artifacts without TLS support.
```

After you add the `properties.json` file and enable TLS, Anypoint Studio displays the TLS configuration form for the connector.  
 

> When you add a `properties.json` file to your project, ensure that the `tlsEnabled` property is correctly set with a valid boolean value of either `true` to enable TLS or `false` to explicitly disable TLS. If the `properties.json` file is invalid or if the property is incorrectly set, the connector generation is aborted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you add a `properties.json` file to your project, ensure that the `tlsEnabled` property is set correctly with a valid boolean value of either `true` to enable TLS or `false` to explicitly disable TLS. If the `properties.json` file is invalid or the property is incorrectly set, the connector generation is aborted.
```

[[upgrade-rest-connector]]
== Upgrading a REST Connect Generated Connector

> To update your REST Connect generated connector to use the latest version of Mule runtime and to be compatible with Java 17:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To update your REST-Connect-generated connector to use the latest version of Mule runtime and to be compatible with Java 17:
```

Reviewer 2: This one is up to you. Compound adjectives are usually hyphenated, but if it seems funny to you, feel free to not use the hyphens.

. In Design Center, open your API project. 
. Click *Publish*. 
+

> The connector is re-generated. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The connector is regenerated. 
```

> If you want to add <<tls-support,TLS support>> to your application, it is a good idea to add it before re-generating the connector so you only have to test your app once. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to add <<tls-support,TLS support>> to your application, add it before re-generating the connector so that you only have to test your app once. 
```

//// 
Does not work. Screen shots are outdated, steps are missing. This needs to be updated before it's published again. 
== OAuth2 in Design Center for REST Connect

. Create a new API specification project named `GitHub API` in Design Center, and copy and paste the previous example into the project. 

> . Define an API with OAuth2 - Authorization Code and one operation in Design Center, for example:

Reviewer 2: Should OAuth2 - Authorization Code be in back ticks?

* `target`
* `targetValue`

[[tls-support]]
== Generating Connectors With TLS Support

Mule 4 (SmartConnector) connectors support Transport Layer Security (TLS).  

When you enable TLS support and generate a connector:

* The connector is upgraded to run on Mule runtime 4.6.
* TLS is enabled, so that Anypoint Studio displays a form for collecting the connector's required TLS connection configuration information.

To enable TLS, add a `properties.json` file to the root directory of the Design Center API project for your app: 

> . In Design Center, Select *Files +* > *New file*.  

Reviewer 2: Just noticed the + in *Files +*. Is that correct?

Author: Yes, that's how it is in the UI.

+
[NOTE]
Add the `properties.json` file only if you want to enable TLS support or explicitly opt out of it. If you don't add a `properties.json` file to your API project, the REST Connect Service generates the standard connector artifacts without TLS support.

After you add the `properties.json` file and enable TLS, Anypoint Studio displays the TLS configuration form for the connector.  
 
When you add a `properties.json` file to your project, ensure that the `tlsEnabled` property is set correctly with a valid boolean value of either `true` to enable TLS or `false` to explicitly disable TLS. If the `properties.json` file is invalid or the property is incorrectly set, the connector generation is aborted.

[[upgrade-rest-connector]]
== Upgrading a REST Connect Generated Connector

To update your REST-Connect-generated connector to use the latest version of Mule runtime and to be compatible with Java 17:

. In Design Center, open your API project. 
. Click *Publish*. 
+
The connector is regenerated. 

If you want to add <<tls-support,TLS support>> to your application, add it before re-generating the connector so that you only have to test your app once. 

> //// 

Reviewer 2: Just checking that this doesn't interfere with anything.

Author: That whole section is commented out. This won't show up. I'll double check in my local build though!

. Match and modify your external callback URL. The callback URL receives an access token from GitHub. 
+
By default, the connector shows `+http://my-app.cloudhub.io/callback+`, but you need to modify it to be specific to your app. The demo app’s callback URL is `+http://githubapp-smky.cloudhub.io/callback+`, so replace “my-app” with “githubapp-smky.” You can find this information to go to the menu and select the copy link in Design Center.
+
image::rest-connect-ready-to-deploy.png[]
+
. After you get your external callback URL, specify the same URL in your GitHub settings.
+
image::rest-connect-auth-callback-url.png[]
+
You are ready to retrieve an access token from GitHub. 
+
. Go to `+http://githubapp-smky.cloudhub.io/authorize+` in a browser, for example `+http://my-app.cloudhub.io/authorize+`.
. Replace `my-app.cloudhub.io` with the one you got when you copied the link. 
. Log in to GitHub.
+
When your access token is issued properly, you can get issues related to Salesforce from GitHub by using `+http://my-app.cloudhub.io/getIssues+` - my-app.cloudhub.io should be replaced with the one you get with `Copy link`.
////

== Known Limitations

>   - Anypoint Platform, including REST Connect, does not support API fragments for OAS.

Reviewer: - TLS support can only be enabled for Mule 4 (SmartConnector) connectors. This feature is not supported for Mule 3 (DevKit).

           application/json:
             type: string
----
. Click *Publish* to publish the API specification to Exchange so you can use it in your Mule app later.
. In the Publishing to Exchange window, accept the default values and click *Publish to Exchange*.
+

> . In Anypoint Studio, create a Mule application with an HTTP Listener, the GitHub API you created in the previous step, and a Logger. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In Anypoint Studio, create a Mule app with an HTTP Listener, the GitHub API you created in the previous step, and a Logger. 
```

+
This app listens to `+https://my-app.cloudhub.io/getIssues+` and returns the results based on your search term.
+

> image::rest-connect-dc-flow.png["Mule flow in Studio canvas that uses HTTP Listener, GitHub API, and Logger components"]

Reviewer 2: I don't think you need to say "in Studio canvas"?

> image::rest-connect-dc-flow.png["Mule flow in Studio canvas that uses HTTP Listener, GitHub API, and Logger components"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
image::rest-connect-dc-flow.png["Mule flow that uses the HTTP Listener, GitHub API, and Logger components"]
```

+

> . Click GitHub API Configuration on the canvas.

Reviewer 2: Bold GitHub API Configuration?

. Configure OAuth 2.0 with an authorization code for the connector. 
+

> Most of the fields are auto-populated based in the GitHub API specification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most of the fields are auto-populated based on the GitHub API specification.
```

+
image::rest-connect-api-config.png["Configuration window for the GitHub API Configuration component"]
+
. Get the Client ID and Client Secret for your GitHub Account. You can find your Client ID and Client Secret if you go to Settings > Developer settings in GitHub. If you don’t have an OAuth App in GitHub, you can  create one with the New OAuth App.
. Because GitHub API’s base URL is api.github.com, you can put “/” in the Base Path.
. Match and modify your external callback URL. The callback URL receives an access token from GitHub. 
+

> By default, the connector shows `+http://my-app.cloudhub.io/callback+`, but you need to modify it to be specific to your app. The demo app’s callback URL is `+http://githubapp-smky.cloudhub.io/callback+`, so replace “my-app” with “githubapp-smky.” You can find this information to go to the menu and select the copy link in Design Center.

Reviewer 2: Use back ticks for my-app and githubapp-smky?

> By default, the connector shows `+http://my-app.cloudhub.io/callback+`, but you need to modify it to be specific to your app. The demo app’s callback URL is `+http://githubapp-smky.cloudhub.io/callback+`, so replace “my-app” with “githubapp-smky.” You can find this information to go to the menu and select the copy link in Design Center.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the connector shows `+http://my-app.cloudhub.io/callback+`, but you need to modify it to be specific to your app. The demo app’s callback URL is `+http://githubapp-smky.cloudhub.io/callback+`, so replace “my-app” with “githubapp-smky.” You can find this information by accessing menu and selecting the copy link in Design Center.
```

> By default, the connector shows `+http://my-app.cloudhub.io/callback+`, but you need to modify it to be specific to your app. The demo app’s callback URL is `+http://githubapp-smky.cloudhub.io/callback+`, so replace “my-app” with “githubapp-smky.” You can find this information to go to the menu and select the copy link in Design Center.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the connector shows `+http://my-app.cloudhub.io/callback+`, but you need to modify it to reflect your app. The demo app’s callback URL is `+http://githubapp-smky.cloudhub.io/callback+`, so replace “my-app” with “githubapp-smky.” You can find this information by accessing the menu and selecting the copy link in Design Center.
```

Reviewer 2: What information does "this information" refer to?

+
image::rest-connect-ready-to-deploy.png[]
+
. After you get your external callback URL, specify the same URL in your GitHub settings.
+
image::rest-connect-auth-callback-url.png[]
+

> You are ready to retrieve an access token from GitHub. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now retrieve an access token from GitHub. 
```

+
. Go to `+http://githubapp-smky.cloudhub.io/authorize+` in a browser, for example `+http://my-app.cloudhub.io/authorize+`.

> . Replace `my-app.cloudhub.io` with the one you got when you copied the link. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Replace `my-app.cloudhub.io` with the one you received when you copied the link. 
```

> . Replace `my-app.cloudhub.io` with the one you got when you copied the link. 

Reviewer 2: Replace "one." Maybe use "path" instead.

> . Replace `my-app.cloudhub.io` with the one you got when you copied the link. 

Reviewer 2: the one > path ?

> . Replace `my-app.cloudhub.io` with the one you got when you copied the link. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Replace `my-app.cloudhub.io` with the one you received when you copied the link. 
```

. Log in to GitHub.
+

> When your access token is issued properly, you can get issues related to Salesforce from GitHub by using `+http://my-app.cloudhub.io/getIssues+` - my-app.cloudhub.io should be replaced with the one you get with `Copy link`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When your access token is issued properly, you can get issues related to Salesforce from GitHub by using `+http://my-app.cloudhub.io/getIssues+`. Replace `my-app.cloudhub.io` with the path you received with `Copy link`.
```

> When your access token is issued properly, you can get issues related to Salesforce from GitHub by using `+http://my-app.cloudhub.io/getIssues+` - my-app.cloudhub.io should be replaced with the one you get with `Copy link`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When your access token is issued properly, you can get issues related to Salesforce from GitHub by using `+http://my-app.cloudhub.io/getIssues+`. Replace `my-app.cloudhub.io` with the path you received with `Copy link`.
```
